feat(tuto): postman with scaleway API - MTA-1854 (#498)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/postman-api/index.mdx

---
meta:

>   title: How to use Postman to manage Scaleway APIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  title: How to use Postman to use Scaleway APIs
```

  description: This page shows how to import APIs into Postman, configure your environment variables and authentication and how to share your workspace with other users. 
content:

>   h1: Managing Scaleway APIs with Postman

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  h1: Using Scaleway APIs with Postman
```

  paragraph: This page shows how to import Scaleway APIs into Postman, configure your environment variables and authentication and how to share your workspace with other users.  
tags: postman postman-api scaleway-api postman-download request json
categories:

>   - storage

Reviewer: This applies to all Scaleway products, `storage` probably is not the right category here.

>   - storage

Author: ```suggestion
  - compute
  - network
  - storage
  - iot-hub
```

In this section we show you how to create an environment with environment variables for a Scaleway project.

1. Click **Create Environment**. 

2. Enter a name for your environment. 

3. Configure your variables, as such:

    - **VARIABLE** - enter the key for your variable.
    - **TYPE** - select between default, which will be visible in plaintext, and secret, will mask the values on the screen.
    - **INTIAL VALUE** - this is the value shown to other users when you share the variable in a collection, environment or globals.
    - **CURRENT VALUE** - this is the value used when you send a request.

  You can add your project ID, and the access key and secret key for your project. We recommend you set your project's secret key as **secret** to increase security.

  <Lightbox src="scaleway-postman-add-variables.webp" />

4. Click **Save** to do so.

## Setting up authorization 

You can set up authorization at the collection, request category and/or request level. In this tutorial, we will set the authorization at the collection level and configure the requests to inherit the setting from parent. 

1. Go to the **Collections** tab.

> 2. Click on the Instance API collection. The **Authorization** tab displays by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click **Instance API collection**. The **Authorization** tab displays by default.
```

---
meta:
  title: How to use Postman to manage Scaleway APIs
  description: This page shows how to import APIs into Postman, configure your environment variables and authentication and how to share your workspace with other users. 
content:
  h1: Using Scaleway APIs with Postman
  paragraph: This page shows how to import Scaleway APIs into Postman, configure your environment variables and authentication and how to share your workspace with other users.  
tags: postman postman-api scaleway-api postman-download request json
categories:
  - compute
  - network
  - storage
  - iot-hub
dates:
  validation: 2022-03-24
  posted: 2022-03-24
---

> Postman is an API client that allows you to build, test and manage APIs through a graphic interface. The platform includes features that make it easy for you to: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Postman is an API client that allows you to build, test and manage APIs through a graphical interface. The platform includes features that make it easy for you to: 
```

  - create, import and test APIs
  - work collaboratively with other users
  - create different environments with unique variables
  - display responses in several programming languages
  - configure granular request authorization rules, using different authorization types
  - capture and monitor request data (status, time, size)

> In this tutorial you will learn how to import Scaleway APIs into Postman, configure your environment variables and authentication and how to share your workspace with other users. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this tutorial you will learn how to import Scaleway APIs into Postman, configure your environment variables and authentication and share your workspace with other users. 
```

</Message> 

## Importing Scaleway APIs into Postman

1. Click **Workspaces** > **Create Workspace** in the top menu of the Postman interface.

  <Lightbox src="scaleway-postman-create-workspace.webp" />

2. Enter a name and description and select a visibility setting for your workspace. Your workspace displays.

3. Go to the Scaleway [developers website](https://developers.scaleway.com/en/) and select a product API to download. 

  In this tutorial, we use the [Scaleway Instances API](https://developers.scaleway.com/en/products/instance/api/).

4. Click **Download OpenAPI**.

  <Lightbox src="scaleway-postman-download-open-api.webp" />

5. Click **Collections** > **Import** in the side menu of the Postman interface.

  <Lightbox src="scaleway-postman-import.webp" />

6. Drag and drop the Instances Open API `yml` file into into the indicated space to upload. 

7. Click **Import** to conclude. 
  
  The Instances API displays under the **Collections** tab in the side menu. The API is organized into files, following the different request categories (including servers, images, placement groups, IPs).

## Setting up an environment

> Postman environments are sets of key/value pairs. They spaces in which you can store your authentication information to use as variables with your collections. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Postman environments are sets of key/value pairs. They are spaces in which you can store your authentication information to use as variables with your collections. 
```

> In this section we show you how to create an environment with environment variables for a Scaleway project.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this section, we show you how to create an environment with environment variables for a Scaleway project.
```

  <Lightbox src="scaleway-postman-endpoint.webp" />

  <Message type="tip">

  If you always create resources in the same region, you can [set up a variable](/tutorials/postman-api/#setting-up-an-environment) for the zone in your environment.

  </Message> 

5. Edit the parameters in the request with your preferences following the example below. In this tutorial we will create a GP1-M instance with the default local volume. 

  <Message type="note">

    - For more information on how to fill out the parameters, refer to the [Scaleway Developers website](https://developers.scaleway.com/en/products/instance/api/#post-7482b1).
    - To find the image UUID, [follow this procedure](/faq/instances/#what-is-a-marketplace-image).

  </Message> 

  ```json
  {
  "name": "my-new-instance",
  "commercial_type": "DEV1-S",
  "image": "881d7a33-4cfa-4046-b5cf-c33cb9c62fb6",
  "enable_ipv6": false,
  "boot_type": "local",
  "project": "697ef834-9bd0-4181-ae29-b0bcd0e574ae"
  }
  ```
6. Click **Send**.

  <Lightbox src="scaleway-postman-response.webp" />

You can **Save** to make sure your configuration is stored for future use.

## Going further

> Postman also disposes of a Command Line Interface (CLI) called `newman` that you can use to run your collections. Find out more about newman in the [README](https://github.com/postmanlabs/newman).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Postman also has a Command Line Interface (CLI) called `newman` that you can use to run your collections. Find out more about newman in the [README](https://github.com/postmanlabs/newman).
```
